INTLY-1064 - managing users (#3)
integr8ly/user-documentation: docs/content/gs-adding-users-proc.adoc

[id='gs-adding-users-proc']

= Managing Users

How to manage users within the {PRODUCT} environment.

== Accessing the SSO Admin Console

> - Login to the OpenShift console as the `customer-admin` user. 

Reviewer: @JameelB 
```suggestion
- Login to the OpenShift console as a user with the  *dedicated-cluster-admin* role.
```
from https://docs.openshift.com/dedicated/getting_started/dedicated_administrators.html

[id='gs-adding-users-proc']

ifdef::env-github[]
:imagesdir: ../images/
endif::[]

= Managing Users

How to manage users within the {PRODUCT} environment.

== Accessing the Red Hat Single Sign-On administration console

To access the administration console navigate to the following URL, replacing `<cluster-host>` with the hostname of your cluster:

----

> https://<cluster-host>/auth/admin/openshift/console

Reviewer 2: I think this should be `https://sso-sso.apps.<cluster-id>.openshiftworkshop.com/auth/realms/openshift`. Tried it with cluster host as `master.<cluster-id>.openshiftworkshop.com` and that doesn't work. I think the `sso-sso.apps` needs to be specified

Reviewer: I added `sso-sso.apps.` don't think we can mention openshiftworkshop.com, right?

Reviewer 2: Good catch. I don't think so, it might be different for OSD. @maleck13

Reviewer: punted to https://issues.jboss.org/browse/INTLY-1167

[id='gs-adding-users-proc']

= Managing Users

How to manage users within the {PRODUCT} environment.

== Accessing the Red Hat Single Sign-On administration console
. Login to the OpenShift console as the `customer-admin` user. 
. Navigate to the *sso* project.

> . Retrieve the credentials for the Red Hat Single Sign-On administration console:

Reviewer: @JameelB  isn't this necessary?

Reviewer 2: @finp Not for the `customer-admin` user as far as I know. That user should be able to login to the `openshift` realm (`https://<cluster-host>/auth/admin/openshift/console`) with their own credentials which is sent to them via the welcome email. They won't have to use the credentials in that secret

Reviewer 3: This shouldn't be needed as they will be sent the customer-admin credentials in the welcome email. They can then use these to login to the rh-sso openshift realm

Reviewer: @maleck13  where is this mail been written? cos we should  add the url for the RHSSO there, right?

[id='gs-adding-users-proc']

= Managing Users

How to manage users within the {PRODUCT} environment.

== Accessing the Red Hat Single Sign-On administration console
. Login to the OpenShift console as the `customer-admin` user. 
. Navigate to the *sso* project.
. Retrieve the credentials for the Red Hat Single Sign-On administration console:
.. Click *Secrets* in the *Resources* menu.
.. Click *credential-rhsso* in the list of Secrets.
.. Click *Reveal Secret* in the  *credential-rhsso* detail page.
.. Note the values for *SSO_ADMIN_USERNAME* and *SSO_ADMIN_PASSWORD*.

> .. Click *Overview* to navigate back to the *sso* project overview page.

Reviewer 2: I think the part of getting the route can be removed and replaced by just giving the url to the `openshfit` realm of the SSO admin console `https://<cluster-host>/auth/admin/openshift/console`

. Click *Routes* in the *Applications* menu.
. Click on the *sso* route hostname to open the Red Hat Single Sign-On (SSO) application.
- Click on the *Administration Console* option on the Red Hat Single Sign-On landing page.
- Login to the Red Hat Single Sign-On administration console.

== Viewing Users in the Red Hat Single Sign-On administration console

> By default, when you log into Red Hat Single Sign-On administration console, the *Openshift* realm is displayed.

Reviewer 2: I think they will only ever have access to the `openshift` realm. @maleck13 can you verify that?

Reviewer 3: correct

Reviewer: removed line

. Navigate to the *Users* menu. The search box at the top of the page can be used to query the list and only show users that matches your criteria.
. Click the *View all users* button at the top of the page. This displays the list of users currently available in the {PRODUCT} environment.

== Creating Users in the SSO Admin Console
. Navigate to the *Users* menu.
. Click the *Add User* button at the top right corner of the page.
. Enter the user information:
+
 * Enter values to `Username` and `Email`.
 * Set `User Enabled` to *ON*.

>  * Set `Email Verified` to *ON*. This ensures that the user account will be activated in 3Scale.

Reviewer: @JameelB  is this line about 3scale true still?

Reviewer 2: @finp 3Scale needs to have this property set to `ON` otherwise the user will get an error `User account not activated` when they try to login to the 3Scale console. 

There are two options to set this to `ON`.
1. Set this field to `ON` during user creation like above.
2. Set a required action to [verify email](https://www.keycloak.org/docs/2.5/server_admin/topics/users/required-actions.html) before logging in. This will set this property to `ON` once the user has verified their email address.

Reviewer 3: Yes you need to do that otherwise 3scale wont let the user login

      "clientRoles": {
          "account": ["manage-account", "view-profile"]
      },
      "groups": [],
      "attributes": {},
      "credentials": [{
        "type" : "password",
        "value" : "Password1"
      }]
    }
  ]
}
----

=== Setting User Password
- Navigate to the *Users* menu.
- Find the user you wish to edit and click on their *Edit* button associated with the user.
- Go to the *Credentials* tab.
- Set a password for the user and click the *Reset Password* button to save.
- If you require the user to update their password upon login, set the `Temporary` field to *ON*.

== Deleting Users in the SSO Admin Console
- Navigate to the *Users* menu
- Click the *View all users* button at the top of the page.
- Find the user you wish to delete
- Click the *Delete* button associated to the user you wish to remove.
- Click *Delete* in the confirmation box to proceed.

== User Management in 3Scale
Users created in  Red Hat Single Sign-On can login to the 3Scale console, however the user's account is created in 3Scale after that initial login. The user created is assigned the role `member` and no permissions set by default. 

> The user role and permission can only be set once a user account is created in 3Scale. Because of this, the only way to change the user's role/permission before the user attempts to login to the 3Scale console is to create a user account that matches the account created in the OpenShift SSO.

Reviewer 2: This bit will need to be changed/removed to accommodate the new user workflow. 

```Because of this, the only way to change the user's role/permission before the user attempts to login to the 3Scale console is to create a user account that matches the account created in the OpenShift SSO```

Instead of telling them to create a user, it should state that the user may request for and will need to be given permissions after they have logged in (when that user account is created).
